In case it's unclear,
if you try to escape,
if you so much as
scratch that glass,
it's 30,000 feet straight
down in a steel trap.
You get how that works?
Ant, boot.
It's an impressive cage.
Not built, I think, for me.
Built for something a
lot stronger than you.
Oh, I've heard.
A mindless beast.
Makes play he's still a man.
How desperate are you,
that you call on such lost
creatures to defend you?
How desperate am I?
You threaten my world with war.
You steal a force you
can't hope to control.
You talk about peace,
and you kill because it's fun.
You have made me very desperate.
You might not be
glad that you did.
Ooh.
It burns you to
have come so close.
To have the Tesseract,
to have power,
unlimited power.
And for what?
A warm light for all
mankind to share.
And then to be reminded
what real power is.
Well, let me know
if "real power"
wants a magazine or something.
He really grows
on you, doesn't he?
Loki's gonna drag this out.
So, Thor, what's his play?
He has an army
called the Chitauri.
They're not of Asgard,
nor any world known.
He means to lead them
against your people.
They will win him the Earth,
in return, I suspect,
for the Tesseract.
An army
from outer space.
So, he's building
another portal.
That's what he
needs Erik Selvig for.
Selvig?
- He's an astrophysicist.
- He's a friend.
Loki has him under
some kind of spell,
along with one of ours.
I want to know why
Loki let us take him.
He's not leading
an army from here.
I don't think we should
be focusing on Loki.
That guy's brain
is a bag full of cats.
You could smell crazy on him.
Have care how you speak.
Loki is beyond reason,
but he is of Asgard.
And he is my brother.
He killed 80 people in two days.
He's adopted.
I think it's about
the mechanics.
Iridium... What do they
need the iridium for?
It's a stabilizing agent.
I'm just saying, pick a weekend.
I'll fly you to Portland.
Keep love alive.
It means the portal
won't collapse on itself
like it did at S.H.I.E.L.D.
No hard feelings, Point Break.
You've got a mean swing.
Also, it means the
portal can open as wide
and stay open as
long, as Loki wants.
Raise the mizzenmast.
Jib the topsails.
That man is playing Galaga.
He thought we wouldn't
notice, but we did.
How does Fury even see these?
He turns.
Sounds exhausting.
The rest of the raw materials,
Agent Barton can get
his hands on pretty easily.
The only major
component he still needs
is a power source of
high-energy density.
Something to
kick-start the Cube.
When did you become an expert
in thermonuclear astrophysics?
Last night.
The packet, Selvig's notes,
the extraction theory papers.
Am I the only one
who did the reading?
Does Loki need any
particular kind of power source?
He would have to heat the
Cube to 120-million Kelvin
just to break through
the Coulomb barrier.
Unless Selvig has
figured out how to stabilize
the quantum tunneling effect.
Well, if he could do that,
he could achieve
heavy ion fusion
at any reactor on the planet.
Finally, someone
who speaks English.
Is that what just happened?
It's good to meet
you, Dr. Banner.
Your work on antielectron
collisions is unparalleled.
And I'm a huge fan of
the way you lose control
and turn into an enormous
green rage-monster.
Thanks.
Dr. Banner is only here
to track the Cube.
I was hoping you might join him.
I would start with
that stick of his.
It may be magical,
but it works an awful lot
like a HYDRA weapon.
I don't know about that, but
it is powered by the Cube.
And I would like to
know how Loki used it
to turn two of the
sharpest men I know
into his personal
flying monkeys.
Monkeys? I do not understand.
I do.
I understood that reference.
Shall we play, Doctor?
This way, sir.
The gamma readings
are definitely consistent
with Selvig's reports
of the Tesseract.
But it's going to take
weeks to process.
If we bypass their mainframe
and direct route to
the Homer cluster
we can clock this at
around 600 teraflops.
All I packed was a toothbrush.
You know, you should come
by Stark Tower sometime.
Top ten floors, all R&D.
You'd love it. It's Candy Land.
Thanks, but the last
time I was in New York,
I kind of broke Harlem.
Well, I promise a
stress-free environment.
No tension, no surprises.
Ow!
- Hey!
- Nothing?
Are you nuts?
Jury's out.
You really have got a
lid on it, haven't you?
What's your secret?
Mellow jazz, bongo drums,
huge bag of weed?
Is everything a joke to you?
Funny things are.
Threatening the safety
of everyone on this ship
isn't funny.
No offense, Doc.
It's all right, I wouldn't
have come aboard
if I couldn't handle
pointy things.
You're tip-toeing, big man.
You need to strut.
And you need to focus
on the problem, Mr. Stark.
Do you think I'm not?
Why did Fury call us in?
Why now? Why not before?
What isn't he telling us?
I can't do the equation
unless I have all the variables.
You think Fury's
hiding something?
He's a spy.
Captain, he's "the" spy.
His secrets have secrets.
It's bugging him, too. Isn't it?
Uh...
I just want to finish
my work here, and...
Doctor?
"A warm light for all mankind."
Loki's jab at Fury
about the Cube.
I heard it.
I think that was meant for you.
Even if Barton didn't
tell Loki about the tower,
it was still all over the news.
The Stark Tower?
That big, ugly
building in New York?
It's powered by an arc reactor,
a self-sustaining energy source.
That building will run
itself for, what, a year?
It's just the prototype.
I'm kind of the only name
in clean energy right now.
That's what he's getting at.
So, why didn't
S.H.I.E.L.D. bring him in
on the Tesseract project?
What are they doing
in the energy business
in the first place?
I should probably look into that
once my decryption program
finishes breaking into all
of S.H.I.E.L.D.'s secure files.
I'm sorry. Did you say...
Jarvis has been running
it since I hit the bridge.
In a few hours, I'll
know every dirty secret
S.H.I.E.L.D. has ever
tried to hide.
Blueberry?
Yet you're confused about
why they didn't want you around.
An intelligence organization
that fears intelligence?
Historically, not awesome.
I think Loki's
trying to wind us up.
This is a man who
means to start a war,
and if we don't stay
focused, he'll succeed.
We have orders.
We should follow them.
Following's not really my style.
And you're all about
style, aren't you?
Of the people in this room,
which one is, A,
wearing a spangly outfit,
and, B, not of use?
Steve, tell me none of this
smells a little funky to you.
Just find the Cube.
That's the guy my dad
never shut up about?
I'm wondering if
they shouldn't have
- kept him on ice.
- Huh.
The guy's not wrong about Loki.
He does have the jump on us.
What he's got is an
Acme dynamite kit.
It's going to blow
up in his face.
And I'm going to be
there when it does.
Yeah. I'll read all about it.
Uh-huh. Or you'll be
suiting up with the rest of us.
You see, I don't
get a suit of armor.
I'm exposed. Like a nerve.
It's a nightmare.
I've got a cluster of
shrapnel trying every second
to crawl its way into my heart.
This stops it.
This little circle of
light, it's part of me now,
not just armor.
It's a terrible privilege.
- But you can control it.
- Because I learned how.
It's different.
Hey, I read all
about your accident.
That much gamma exposure
should have killed you.
So you're saying
that the Hulk...
The other guy saved my life?
That's nice.
It's a nice sentiment.
Saved it for what?
I guess we'll find out.
You may not enjoy that.
And you just might.
As soon as Loki took the doctor,
we moved Jane Foster.
They've got an excellent
observatory in Tromso.
She was asked to consult
there very suddenly yesterday.
Handsome fee, private
plane, very remote.
She'll be safe.
Thank you.
It's no accident, Loki
taking Erik Selvig.
I dread what he plans
for him once he's done.
Erik is a good man.
He talks about you a lot.
You changed his life.
You changed everything
around here.
They were better as they were.
We pretend on Asgard
that we're more advanced,
but we come here,
battling like bilge snipe.
- Like what?
- Bilge snipe.
You know, huge,
scaly, big antlers.
- You don't have those?
- I don't think so.
Well, they are repulsive.
And they trample
everything in their path.
When I first came to Earth,
Loki's rage followed me here,
and your people paid the price.
And now, again.
In my youth, I courted war.
War hasn't started yet.
You think you could
make Loki tell us
where the Tesseract is?
I do not know.
Loki's mind is far afield.
It's not just power he craves,
it's vengeance, upon me.
There's no pain would
prise his need from him.
A lot of guys think that,
until the pain starts.
What are you asking me to do?
I'm asking, what are
you prepared to do?
Loki is a prisoner.
Then why do I feel like
he's the only
person on this boat
that wants to be here?
There's not many people
who can sneak up on me.
But you figured I'd come.
After.
After whatever tortures
Fury can concoct,
you would appear
as a friend, as a balm.
And I would cooperate.
I want to know what
you've done to Agent Barton.
I would say I've
expanded his mind.
And once you've won,
once you're king
of the mountain,
what happens to his mind?
Oh...
Is this love, Agent Romanoff?
Love is for children.
I owe him a debt.
Tell me.
Before I worked for
S.H.I.E.L.D., I, uh...
Well, I made a name for myself.
I have a very
specific skill set.
I didn't care who
I used it for, or on.
I got on S.H.I.E.L.D.'s
radar in a bad way.
Agent Barton
was sent to kill me.
He made a different call.
And what will you do
if I vow to spare him?
Not let you out.
No, but I like this.
Your world in the balance,
and you bargain for one man.
Regimes fall every day.
I tend not to weep over that.
I'm Russian.
Or I was.
And what are you now?
It's really not
that complicated.
I got red in my ledger,
I'd like to wipe it out.
Can you?
Can you wipe out that much red?
Dreykov's daughter,
Sao Paulo,
the hospital fire?
Barton told me everything.
Your ledger is dripping.
It's gushing red,
and you think saving a man
no more virtuous than yourself
will change anything?
This is the basest
sentimentality.
This is a child at prayer.
Pathetic!
You lie and kill
in the service of
liars and killers.
You pretend to be separate,
to have your own code,
something that makes
up for the horrors.
But they are part of you.
And they will never go away.
I won't touch Barton, not
until I make him kill you.
Slowly, intimately,
in every way he knows you fear.
And then he'll wake just long
enough to see his good work,
and when he screams,
I'll split his skull.
This is my bargain,
you mewling quim.
You're a monster.
Oh, no.
You brought the monster.
So, Banner.
That's your play.
What?
Loki means to unleash the Hulk.
Keep Banner in the lab.
I'm on my way.
Send Thor as well.
Thank you
for your cooperation.
What are you doing, Mr. Stark?
Uh, kind of been wondering
the same thing about you.
You're supposed to be
locating the Tesseract.
We are. The model's locked
and we're sweeping
for the signature now.
When we get a hit,
we'll have the location
within half a mile.
Yeah, then you get your Cube back.
No muss, no fuss.
What is "Phase 2"?
Phase 2 is S.H.I.E.L.D.
uses the Cube to make weapons.
Sorry, computer was
moving a little slow for me.
Rogers, we gathered everything
related to the Tesseract.
This does not mean
that we're making...
I'm sorry, Nick.
What were you lying?
I was wrong, Director.
The world hasn't changed a bit.
Did you know about this?
You want to think
about removing yourself
from this environment, Doctor?
I was in Calcutta.
I was pretty well removed.
Loki is manipulating you.
And you've been
doing what, exactly?
You didn't come here because
I bat my eyelashes at you.
Yes, and I'm not leaving
because suddenly
you get a little twitchy.
I'd like to know
why S.H.I.E.L.D.
is using the Tesseract
to build weapons
of mass destruction.
Because of him.
Me?
Last year, Earth had a
visitor from another planet
who had a grudge match
that leveled a small town.
We learned that not
only are we not alone,
but we are hopelessly,
hilariously, outgunned.
My people want nothing
but peace with your planet.
But you're not the only
people out there, are you?
And you're not the only threat.
The world's filling up with
people who can't be matched,
that can't be controlled.
Like you controlled the Cube?
Your work with the Tesseract
is what drew Loki
to it, and his allies.
It is a signal to all the realms
that the Earth is ready
for a higher form of war.
A higher form?
You forced our hand.
We had to come
up with something.
A nuclear deterrent.
Because that always
calms everything right down.
Remind me again how you
made your fortune, Stark.
I'm sure if he still
made weapons,
Stark would be neck-deep...
Hold on.
How is this now about me?
I'm sorry, isn't everything?
I thought humans were
more evolved than this.
Excuse me, did we come to
your planet and blow stuff up?
You treat your champions
with such mistrust.
Are you boys really that naive?
S.H.I.E.L.D. monitors
potential threats.
Captain America's
on threat watch?
We all are.
Wait, you're on that list?
Are you above or
below angry bees?
Stark, so help me God,
if you make one
more wisecrack...
Threat! Verbal threat.
I feel threatened.
- Show some respect.
- Respect what?
Transport Six-Six-Bravo,
please relay confirm codes.
I've got you on the computer,
but not on the day log.
What is your haul? Over.
Arms and ammunition. Over.
You speak of control,
yet you court chaos.
That's his M.O., isn't it?
I mean, what are we, a team?
No, we're a chemical
mixture that makes chaos.
We're a time bomb.
You need to step away.
Why shouldn't the guy
let off a little steam?
You know damn well why.
Back off!
I'm starting to want
you to make me.
Yeah.
Big man in a suit of armor.
Take that off, what are you?
Genius, billionaire,
playboy, philanthropist.
I know guys with none
of that worth ten of you.
I've seen the footage.
The only thing you
really fight for is yourself.
You're not the guy to
make the sacrifice play,
to lay down on a wire and let
the other guy crawl over you.
I think I would
just cut the wire.
Always a way out.
You may not be a threat,
but you better stop
pretending to be a hero.
A hero? Like you?
You're a laboratory
experiment, Rogers.
Everything special about
you came out of a bottle.
Put on the suit.
Let's go a few rounds.
You people are
so petty, and tiny.
Yeah, this is a team.
Agent Romanoff, would you escort
Dr. Banner back to his...
Where? You rented my room.
The cell was just in case...
In case you needed to kill me.
But you can't. I know, I tried.
I got low. I didn't see an end.
So, I put a bullet in my mouth,
and the other guy spit it out.
So I moved on.
I focused on helping other people.
I was good.
Until you dragged me
back into this freak show
and put everyone here at risk.
You want to know my
secret, Agent Romanoff?
You want to know
how I stay calm?
Dr. Banner,
put down the scepter.
Got it.
Sorry, kids,
you don't get to see
my party trick after all.
You located the Tesseract?
I could get there fastest.
The Tesseract belongs on Asgard.
No human is a match for it.
- You're not going alone.
- You're gonna stop me?
Put on the suit, let's find out.
I'm not afraid to
hit an old man.
Put on the suit.
Oh, my God.
Yeah.
All hands to stations.
- Hill!
- External detonation.
Number three engine is down.
We've been hit.
- Can they get it running?
- Fire in engine three!
Talk to me.
Turbine looks mostly intact,
but it's impossible to get
out there to make repairs
while we're in the air.
If we lose one more
engine, we won't be.
Somebody's got to get
outside and patch that engine.
- Stark, you copy that?
- I'm on it.
Coulson, initiate
defensive lockdown
in the detention section,
then get to the armory.
Romanoff?
We're okay.
We're okay, right?
- Keep that engine down!
- Yes, sir.
Detention, wait for
cameras to go dark.
- Got it.
- Stay close.
Let's go, Level 4.
Engine three.
I'll meet you there.
Doctor?
Bruce?
You got to fight it.
This is just what Loki wants.
We're going to be okay.
Listen to me.
Are you hurt?
We're going to be okay.
All right?
I swear on my life,
I will get you out of this.
You will walk away
and never ever...
Your life?
Bruce.
Bring the carrier about
to a 1-8-0, heading south!
- Take us to the water!
- We're flying blind.
Navigation's recalibrating
after the engine failure.
Is the sun coming up?
- Yes, sir.
- Then put it on the left.
Get us over water.
One more turbine
goes down, and we drop.
Thanks.
Stark!
Stark, I'm here!
Good.
Let's see what we've got.
I got to get this
superconducting coolant system
back online
before I can access the rotors,
work on dislodging the debris.
I need you to get to
that engine control panel
and tell me which relays
are in overload position.
What does it look like in there?
It seems to run on
some form of electricity.
Well, you're not wrong.
We are not your enemies, Banner.
Try to think!
Okay, the relays are intact.
What's our next move?
Even if I clear the rotors,
this thing won't
re-engage without a jump.
I'm going to have to
get in there and push.
If that thing gets up to
speed, you'll get shredded.
That stator control unit
can reverse the polarity
long enough to disengage
maglev and that could...
Speak English!
You see that red lever?
It will slow the rotors down
long enough for me to get out.
Stand by it. Wait for my word.
We need full evac on
the lower hangar bay.
Grenade!
We've got a perimeter breach!
Hostiles are in
S.H.I.E.L.D. gear.
Call-outs at every junction.
We have the Hulk and
Thor on Research Level 4.
Levels 2 and 3 are dark.
Sir, the Hulk will
tear this place apart!
Get his attention.
Escort 6-0, proceed to
Wishbone and engage hostile.
Don't get too close.
Copy.
Target acquired.
Target engaged.
Target angry, target angry!
They're not getting through
here, so what the hell...
Engine one is now in shut-down.
We are in an
uncontrolled descent.
Sir, we've lost all
power in engine one.
It's Barton.
He took out our systems.
He's headed for
the detention level.
Does anybody copy?
This is Agent Romanoff.
I copy.
Stark, we're losing altitude.
Yeah, I noticed.
No!
Are you ever not
going to fall for that?
The humans think us immortal.
Should we test that?
Move away, please.
You like this?
We started working
on the prototype
after you sent the Destroyer.
Even I don't know what it does.
Do you want to find out?
No!
Natasha?
You're going to lose.
Am I?
It's in your nature. Hmm.
Your heroes are scattered.
Your floating fortress
falls from the sky.
Where is my disadvantage?
You lack conviction.
I don't think I'm...
So, that's what it does.
All hands to crash
stations immediately.
Cap, hit the lever.
I need a minute here!
Lever,
now!
Uh-oh.
Help!
Sorry, boss.
The god rabbited.
Just stay awake.
Eyes on me.
No, I'm clocking out here.
Not an option.
It's okay, boss.
This was never gonna work
if they didn't have something
to...
Agent Coulson is down.
A medical team is on
its way to your location.
They're here.
They called it.
These were in Phil
Coulson's jacket.
I guess he never did
get you to sign them.
We're dead in the air up here.
Our communications,
the location of the Cube,
Banner, Thor...
I got nothing for you.
I lost my one good eye.
Maybe I had that coming.
Yes,
we were going to build an
arsenal with the Tesseract.
I never put all my chips
on that number, though,
because I was playing
something even riskier.
There was an idea,
Stark knows this,
called the Avengers Initiative.
The idea was to
bring together a group
of remarkable people,
to see if they could
become something more.
To see if they
could work together
when we needed them to,
to fight the battles
that we never could.
Phil Coulson died still
believing in that idea.
In heroes.
Well,
it's an old-fashioned notion.
You fell out of the sky.
Did I hurt anybody?
There's nobody
around here to get hurt.
You did scare the hell out
of some pigeons, though.
Lucky.
Or just good aim.
You were awake when you fell.
- You saw?
- The whole thing.
Right through the ceiling.
Big and green and buck-ass nude.
Here.
Didn't think those would fit
you until you shrunk down
to a regular-size feller.
Thank you.
Are you an alien?
What?
From outer space, an alien.
No.
Well, then, son,
you've got a condition.
Clint.
You're going to be all right.
You know that?
Is that what you know?
I've got no window.
I have to flush him out.
- You got to level out.
- It's gonna take time.
You don't understand.
Have you ever had someone
take your brain and play?
Pull you out and stuff
something else in?
Do you know what
it's like to be unmade?
You know that I do.
Why am I back?
How'd you get him out?
Cognitive recalibration.
I hit you really
hard on the head.
Thanks.
Natasha...
How many agents did I...
Don't.
Don't do that to
yourself, Clint.
This is Loki.
This is monsters and magic,
and nothing we
were ever trained for.
Loki, did he get away?
Yeah.
I don't suppose you know where.
I didn't need to know.
I didn't ask.
He's gonna make
his play soon, though.
Today.
We got to stop him.
Yeah? Who's "we"?
I don't know. Whoever's left.
Well,
if I put an arrow through
Loki's eye socket,
I'd sleep better, I suppose.
Now you sound like you.
But you don't.
You're a spy, not a soldier.
Now you want to
wade into a war. Why?
What did Loki do to you?
He didn't. I just...
Natasha.
I've been compromised.
I got red in my ledger.
I'd like to wipe it out.
Was he married?
No.
There was a cellist, I think.
I'm sorry.
He seemed like a good man.
He was an idiot.
Why? For believing?
For taking on Loki alone.
He was doing his job.
He was out of his league.
He should have waited.
He should have...
Sometimes there
isn't a way out, Tony.
Right, I've heard that before.
Is this the first time
you lost a soldier?
We are not soldiers.
I'm not marching to Fury's fife.
Neither am I.
He's got the same blood
on his hands that Loki does.
But right now, we got
to put that behind us
and get this done.
Loki needs a power source.
If we can put together a list...
He made it personal.
That's not the point.
That is the point.
That's Loki's point.
He hit us all right
where we live. Why?
To tear us apart.
Yeah, divide and
conquer is great,
but he knows he has to
take us out to win, right?
That's what he wants.
He wants to beat us,
he wants to be seen doing it.
He wants an audience.
Right. I caught
his act in Stuttgart.
Yeah, that's just previews.
This is opening night.
And Loki, he's a
full-tilt diva, right?
He wants flowers,
he wants parades.
He wants a monument
built to the skies
with his name plastered...
Son of a bitch.
Time to go.
- Go where?
- I'll tell you on the way.
Can you fly one of those jets?
I can.
You got a suit?
Yeah.
Then suit up.
Hey, you guys aren't
authorized to be in here.
Son, just don't.
Sir.
Agent Hill.
Those cards,
they were in Coulson's
locker, not in his jacket.
They needed the push.
We have an
unauthorized departure
from Bay 6.
They found him.
Get our communications back up,
whatever you have to do.
- I want eyes on everything.
- Yes, sir.
Sir, I've turned
off the arc reactor
but the device is
already self-sustaining.
Shut it down, Dr. Selvig.
It's too late!
She can't stop now.
She wants to show us something!
A new universe.
Okay.
The barrier is pure energy.
It's unbreachable.
Yeah, I got that.
Plan B.
Sir, the Mark 7 is not
ready for deployment.
Then skip the spinning rims.
We're on the clock.
Please tell me you're going
to appeal to my humanity.
Actually, I'm planning
to threaten you.
You should have left
your armor on for that.
Yeah.
It's seen a bit of mileage,
and you've got the
glow stick of destiny.
Would you like a drink?
Stalling me won't
change anything.
No, no. Threatening.
No drink? Are you sure?
I'm having one.
The Chitauri are coming.
Nothing will change that.
What have I to fear?
The Avengers.
That's what we call ourselves.
We're sort of like a team.
"Earth's mightiest
heroes" -type thing.
Yes, I've met them.
Yeah.
It takes us a while
to get any traction,
I'll give you that one.
But let's do a head count, here.
Your brother, the demigod,
a super soldier, a living legend
who kind of lives
up to the legend.
A man with breathtaking
anger-management issues,
a couple of master
assassins, and you, big fella,
you've managed to piss
off every single one of them.
That was the plan.
Not a great plan.
When they come,
and they will,
they'll come for you.
I have an army.
We have a Hulk.
I thought the beast
had wandered off.
You're missing the point.
There is no throne.
There is no version of this
where you come out on top.
Maybe your army comes
and maybe it's too much for us,
but it's all on you.
Because if we can't
protect the Earth,
you can be damn well
sure we'll avenge it.
How will your friends
have time for me
when they are so
busy fighting you?
This usually works.
Well, performance issues,
it's not uncommon.
One out of five...
Jarvis, anytime now.
You will all fall before me.
Deploy!
And there's one other
person you pissed off.
His name was Phil.
Right.
Army.
Loki!
Turn off the Tesseract,
or I'll destroy it.
You can't.
There is no stopping it.
There is only
the war.
So be it.
Stark, we're on your
three, headed northeast.
What? Did you stop
for drive-through?
Swing up Park.
I'm gonna lay 'em out for you.
Sir, we have more incoming.
Fine. Let's keep them occupied.
- Nat?
- I see him.
We got to get back up there.
Stark, are you seeing this?
Seeing.
Still working on believing.
Where's Banner?
Has he shown up yet?
Banner?
Just keep me posted.
Jarvis, find me a soft spot.
Look at this!
Look around you!
You think this madness
will end with your rule?
It's too late.
It's too late to stop it.
No. We can, together.
Sentiment.
We've got civilians
still trapped up here.
Loki.
They're fish in a
barrel down there.
We got this.
It's good. Go.
Do you think you
can hold them off?
Captain,
it would be my genuine pleasure.
Just like Budapest
all over again.
You and I remember
Budapest very differently.
It's going to be an hour
before they can scramble
the National Guard.
National Guard?
Does the army know
what's happening here?
Do we?
You need men in these buildings.
There are people inside and
they're going to be running
right into the line of fire.
You take them to the basements
or through the subway.
You keep them off the streets.
I need a perimeter
as far back as 39th.
Why the hell should I
take orders from you?
I need men in those buildings.
Lead the people down
and away from the streets.
We're going to
set up a perimeter
all the way down to 39th Street.
Well, we got its attention.
What the hell was step two?
What's the story upstairs?
The power surrounding
the Cube is impenetrable.
Thor's right.
We got to deal with these guys.
- How do we do this?
- As a team.
I have unfinished
business with Loki.
Yeah? Well, get in line.
Save it.
Loki's going to keep
this fight focused on us,
and that's what we need.
Without him, these
things could run wild.
We got Stark up top.
He's going to need us to...
So, this all seems horrible.
I've seen worse.
Sorry.
No, we could use a little worse.
- Stark, we got him.
- Banner?
Just like you said.
Then tell him to suit up.
I'm bringing the party to you.
I don't see how that's a party.
Dr. Banner.
Now might be a really good
time for you to get angry.
That's my secret, Captain.
I'm always angry.
Hold on!
Send the rest.
Guys.
Call it, Captain.
All right, listen up.
Until we can close that portal,
our priority is containment.
Barton, I want you on that roof.
Eyes on everything.
Call out patterns and strays.
Stark, you got the perimeter.
Anything gets more
than three blocks out,
you turn it back or
you turn it to ash.
- Can you give me a lift?
- Right.
Better clench up, Legolas.
Thor, you got to try and
bottleneck that portal.
Slow them down.
You got the lightning.
Light the bastards up.
You and me, we stay
here on the ground.
We keep the fighting here.
And Hulk...
Smash.
Sir.
The Council is on.
Stark, you got a lot of
strays sniffing your tail.
I'm just trying to keep
them off the streets.
Well, they can't
bank worth a damn.
So find a tight corner.
I will roger that.
Oh, boy.
Nice call.
What else you got?
Thor is taking on a
squadron down on Sixth.
And he didn't invite me.
Captain, none of this is
going to mean a damn thing
if we don't close that portal.
Our biggest guns
couldn't touch it.
Well, maybe it's not about guns.
If you want to get up there,
you're going to need a ride.
I got a ride.
I could use a boost, though.
Are you sure about this?
Yeah. It's gonna be fun.
Okay, turn, turn.
Less! Less!
Captain, the bank
on 42nd past Madison.
They've cornered a
lot of civilians in there.
I'm on it.
Everyone! Clear out!
Director Fury,
the Council has made a decision.
I recognize the Council
has made a decision.
But given that it's a
stupid-ass decision,
I have elected to ignore it.
Director, you're closer
than any of our subs.
You scramble that jet...
That is the island of
Manhattan, Councilman.
Until I'm certain my
team can't hold it,
I will not order
a nuclear strike
against a civilian population.
If we don't hold them
here, we lose everything.
If I send that bird
out, we already have.
Oh, you.
Hawkeye!
Nat, what are you doing?
A little help?
I got him.
Enough!
You are, all of you, beneath me!
I am a god, you dull creature.
And I will not be bullied by...
Puny god.
The scepter...
Doctor.
Loki's scepter.
The energy.
The Tesseract can't fight,
but you can't protect
against yourself.
It's not your fault.
You didn't know
what you were doing.
Actually, I think I did.
I built in a safety to
cut their power source.
Loki's scepter.
It may be able to
close the portal.
And I'm looking right at it.
Sir, we will lose power
before we penetrate that shell.
Jarvis, you ever hear
the tale of Jonah?
I wouldn't consider
him a role model.
Director Fury is no
longer in command.
Override order 7-Alpha-1-1.
- 7-Alpha-1-1, confirmed.
- We're go for takeoff.
Sir, we have a bird in motion!
Anyone on the deck,
we have a rogue bird.
We need to shut it down!
Repeat, takeoff
is not authorized.
Stark, do you hear me?
You have a missile
headed straight for the city.
How long?
Three minutes, max.
The payload will
wipe out Midtown.
Jarvis, put everything
we got into the thrusters.
I just did.
Package is sent.
Detonation in 2 minutes,
30 seconds, mark.
Are you ready for another bout?
What, are you getting sleepy?
Right at the crown!
I can close it.
Can anybody copy?
I can shut the portal down.
- Do it!
- No, wait.
Stark, these things
are still coming.
I got a nuke coming in.
It's gonna blow in
less than a minute.
And I know just where to put it.
Stark, you know
that's a one-way trip.
Save the rest for the turn, J.
Sir, shall I try Miss Potts?
Might as well.
The streets of New York City
have become a battleground.
The Army is here trying
to contain the violence
but clearly, it is outmatched.
And I have to say, in
all my years of reporting,
I have never seen
anything like this.
We have limited
information on the team,
but we do know that billionaire
Tony Stark's Iron Man...
Come on, Stark.
Close it.
Son of a gun.
He's not slowing down.
Is he breathing?
What the hell?
What just happened?
Please tell me nobody kissed me.
We won.
All right, yay!
Hurray. Good job, guys.
Let's just not come in tomorrow.
Let's just take a day.
Have you ever tried shawarma?
There's a shawarma joint
about two blocks from here.
I don't know what it is,
but I want to try it.
We're not finished yet.
And then shawarma after.
If it's all the same to you,
I'll have that drink now.
Despite the devastation
of what has been confirmed
as an extraterrestrial attack,
the extraordinary heroics
of the group known
as the Avengers
has been to many a
cause not only for comfort,
but for celebration.
It's just really great
knowing they're out there.
That someone is
watching over us.
I love you, Thor!
And then these guys were like...
And then the air goes...
And this green guy
walks up and he goes...
I don't know.
I don't exactly feel safer
with those things out there.
It just seems that there's
a lot they're not telling us.
Superheroes in New York?
Give me a break.
These so-called "heroes"
have to be held responsible
for the destruction
done to this city.
This was their fight.
Where are they now?
Tough questions are being asked
about the Avengers themselves.
Their sudden appearance
and equally sudden
disappearance...
What, this is all
somehow their fault?
Captain America saved my life.
Wherever he is, and
wherever any of them are,
I would just...
I would want to say thank you.
Where are the Avengers?
I'm not currently tracking
their whereabouts.
I'd say they've earned
a leave of absence.
And the Tesseract?
The Tesseract is
where it belongs.
Out of our reach.
That's not your call.
I didn't make it.
I just didn't argue
with the god that did.
So, you let him take it
and the war criminal, Loki,
who should be
answering for his crime.
Oh, I think he will be.
I don't think you understand
what you've started,
letting the Avengers
loose on this world.
They're dangerous.
They surely are, and
the whole world knows it.
Every world knows it.
Was that the point of all this?
A statement?
A promise.
Sir, how does it work now?
They've gone
their separate ways.
Some, pretty extremely far.
If we get into a
situation like this again,
what happens then?
They'll come back.
Are you really sure about that?
I am.
Why?
Because we'll need them to.
Humans.
They are not the cowering
wretches we were promised.
They stand.
They are unruly, and
therefore cannot be ruled.
To challenge them
is to court death.